# StockTrade
Run the Player_Turns.ipynb/ Player_Turns.py file.

It's a single player stock price prediction game.

First player will be prompted for number of days he/ she wanted to predict Apple company stocks.

After your portfolio will get Initialized to '0' Apple stocks and 10000 as your cash.

Apple stocks open, close, high, low and volume gets displayed on screen (1 day stock details).

For each turn the player will be prompted for 4 actions
* Buy - Enter B/b to buy a stock and then you have to enter number of stocks you want to buy, one cannot buy stocks worth more than his/ her cash balance.
* Sell - Enter S/s to sell a stock and then you have to enter number of stocks you want to sell, one cannot sell stocks whose count is more than what he/ she actually owns.
* Do Nothing/ Hold - Enter H/h, you will be shown next day apple stock.
* Exit - Enter E/e you will be exited out of prediction game and then your portfolio, profit/ loss will be shown.

Once his/ her prediction ends after n days (n is what you gave as input at first) we will be calculating totalCash as cash Balance + total shares cost that one holds according to n+1 day apple stocks open price.

Next player portfolio, whether he/ she ended up in profit [win] i.e., totalCash > 10000 (starting balance) or loss i.e., totalCash < 10000 will be displayed.

For each turn the player is given information on the current day's information of the stock AAPL.

* High - The highest price the stock traded for that day
* Low  - The lowest price the stock traded for that day
* Close - The final price of the stock that day
* Volume - The amount of trades everyone in the stockmarket mad
* 20_day - The average price of the stock over the course of the last 20 days
* 50_day - The average price of the stock over the course of the last 50 days

It will update the value of your portfolio accordingly at the start of each turn.

After game ends it will again prompt you to enter Y/ N to play the game again. Enter Y/y to play game again or enter N/n to exit game.

**The closing price of the previous day and the opening price of the current day will be different due to after hours trading and premarket trading.**

# BeamSearch
 
 BeamSearch_Tree_AI and Base line AI:
 
 Run the AI_turns.py file. 
 
 It's a single player trading game that AI (either baseline AI or beam search AI)plays. 
 
You will be prompted to enter the the cash with which AI should start with and number of days you wanted AI to trade the stocks . (Try to enter atleast 5000 cash as each apple stock costs around 100-120 dollars, this will help you to see the performance of AI)

Now you will be prompted to select AI you want to use as shown below to start trading
[Which AI you want to choose: BaselineAI (Enter B), BeamSearchAI (Enter BS):]
Enter B to choose Baseline AI or enter BS to choose beam search AI.

Now portfolio of AI gets intialized to zero apple shares and cash as the value you entered . 

Then it will show the level of tree generated by BeamSearch algorithm, number of nodes processed (which is atmost 12 i.e., 'k' * 3 (buy, sell or hold - 3 options) where k = 4 is beam size or number of random actions to be chosen in our algorithm for beam search or baseline AI respectively ) and set of actions that AI has taken at that particular level. 
b - Buy 5% of initial cash worth stocks
s - Sell 5% of initial cash worth stocks 
h - hold/ do nothing

It also displays some error messages if AI performs some invalid actions saying not enough cash, not enough shares.

Next you can hit enter to see the each level actions taken by AI. In this way should continue to hit enter until AI finishes the game. 

Once AI trading ends after n days (n is what you gave as input at first for our AI to trade), we will be calculating totalCash as cash Balance + total shares cost that AI holds according to n+1 day apple stocks open price.

Next AI's Cash, portfolio (number of shares AI holds), shares value + Cash as Total Cash, total number of nodes AI processed in entire game and whether AI ended up in profit [win] i.e., totalCash > Cash (starting balance) or loss i.e., totalCash < Cash will be displayed.

To trade again with AI, run the AI_turns.py file.
 
# Neural Network + BeamSearch:

 
 NN + BeamSearch_Tree_AI, BeamSearch_Tree_AI and Base line AI:
 
 Run the NN_Tree_AI_turns.py file. 
 
 It's a single player trading game that Either Human or AI (NN + BeamSearch, BeamSearch or Baseline)plays. 
 
You will be prompted to enter the the cash with which AI should start with. (Try to enter atleast 5000 cash as each apple stock costs around 100-120 dollars, this will help you to see the performance of AI)

Next you will be prompted to enter number of days you wanted AI to trade the stocks, Enter one of 5 instances available i.e., 5, 25, 45, 65, 85 days.

Now you will be prompted to select AI you want to use as shown below to start trading
[Which AI you want to choose: Human (Enter H) BaselineAI (Enter B), BeamSearchAI (Enter BS), NN + BeamSearch (Enter NNBS):]

Enter H to play game by yourself, enter B to choose Baseline AI or enter BS to choose beam search AI or enter NNBS to choose LSTM neural network + Beam Search AI .

Now portfolio of AI gets intialized to zero apple shares and cash as the value you entered. 

If you choose human:

Apple stocks open, close, high, low and volume gets displayed on screen (1 day stock details).

For each turn the player will be prompted for 4 actions
* Buy - Enter B/b to buy a stock and then you have to enter number of stocks you want to buy, one cannot buy stocks worth more than his/ her cash balance.
* Sell - Enter S/s to sell a stock and then you have to enter number of stocks you want to sell, one cannot sell stocks whose count is more than what he/ she actually owns.
* Do Nothing/ Hold - Enter H/h, you will be shown next day apple stock.
* Exit - Enter E/e you will be exited out of prediction game and then your portfolio, profit/ loss will be shown.


If you choose any one of 3 AI's:

Then it will show the level of tree generated by BeamSearch algorithm, number of nodes processed (which is atmost 12 i.e., 'k' * 3 (buy, sell or hold - 3 options) where k = 4 is beam size or number of random actions to be chosen in our algorithm for beam search or baseline AI respectively ) and set of actions that AI has taken at that particular level. 
b - Buy 5% of initial cash worth stocks
s - Sell 5% of initial cash worth stocks 
h - hold/ do nothing

It also displays some error messages if AI performs some invalid actions saying not enough cash, not enough shares.

Next you can hit enter to see the each level actions taken by AI. In this way should continue to hit enter until AI finishes the game. 




Once AI/ human trading ends after n days (n is what you gave as input at first for our AI to trade), we will be calculating totalCash as cash Balance + total shares cost that AI/ human holds according to n+1 day apple stocks open price.

Next AI's/ human's Cash, portfolio (number of shares AI holds), shares value + Cash as Total Cash, total number of nodes AI processed in entire game and whether AI/ human ended up in profit [win] i.e., totalCash > Cash (starting balance) or loss i.e., totalCash < Cash will be displayed.

To trade again with any one of 3 AI's or human, run the NN_Tree_AI_turns.py file.

 
 

